# Coivd-19-Impact-on-Temporal-Threshold-Networks-of-the-US-Stock-Market
This is the code for a paper that is in the late stages of publication and achieved a 93% grade for my MSc Dissertation. The abstract is as follows:

"The stock market is a large, complex, interrelated system with unpredictable dynamical behaviour. Network science offers a powerful framework for modelling such complex systems. The Covid-19 pandemic created a new, uncertain economic environment, with stock crashes unseen since the Great Depression. This study reveals the hidden impacts of Covid-19 on stock market structure and stock similarity dynamics. The temporal, time varying, networks were built using stocks from the entire NASDAQ stock exchange, dating back 2 years pre-October 2021, a total of 2456 stocks. Pairwise correlations of logarithmic returns were used to construct time-varying threshold networks, with a criterion proposed for selecting a suitable threshold based on the maximum edge weight of the Minimum Spanning Tree (MST). The results reveal that the COVID-19 pandemic caused a temporary collapse in market diversification, unifying all sectors into a highly interconnected structure and reducing community modularity. Financial, low-volatility, and technology stocks became the most central during the crisis, acting as conduits for contagion. As volatility subsided, the networks gradually regained their pre-pandemic hierarchical structure. These findings highlight the value of network-based approaches for monitoring systemic risk, understanding investor behaviour, and identifying indicators of market recovery."

CODE_1: Creates the threshold networks by finding the suitable threshold per time increment and filtering out unimportant edges. Plotting the criteria figures to ensure that the networks have matched our criteria.
